That moment from Nope is one of my
favorite bits of sound design in recent
memory. Sound designer Johnny Burn and
director Jordan Peele use something
called sonic ambiguity to create some
incredibly unsettling effects throughout
the film.
Here's what I mean.
Listen to the sound and tell me if these
are screams of horror or screams of
delight like you might hear on a roller
coaster. It's almost impossible to tell
the difference, which is pretty
unsettling. So in crafting the sound of
people being eaten by the monster, Burn
and Peele asked the actors to scream in
horror and to scream like they were on a
roller coaster and then blended the two
together.
What I love about this is not only does
it sound horrifying, but thematically it
works perfectly for a movie that's about
how the lines between trauma and
entertainment can get blurred.
That's not the only time they use sonic
ambiguity though. The first time you
hear the screams, you can't quite be
sure.
Is that the wind?